# Main Method in C
C# applications have an entry point called Main Method. It is the first method which gets invoked whenever an application started and it is present in every C# executable file. The application may be Console Application or Windows Application. The most common entry point of a C# program is static void Main() or static void Main(String []args).<br>

## Different Declaration of Main() Method
1. With command line arguments:<br>
`static` `public` `void` `Main`(String[] args)<br>

## Meaning of the Main Syntax:

* **static:** It means Main Method can be called without an object.
* **public:** It is access modifiers which means the compiler can execute this from anywhere.
* **void:** The Main method doesn’t return anything.
* **Main():** It is the configured name of the Main method.
* **String []args:** For accepting the zero-indexed command line arguments. args is the user-defined name. So you  can change it by a valid identifer. [] must come before the args otherwise compiler will give errors. <br>
2. Without Command line arguments<br>
`static` `public` `void` `Main`()<br>

3. **Applicable Access Modifiers:** `public`, `private`, `protected`, `internal`, `protected internal` access modifiers can be used with the Main() method. The `private protected` access modifier cannot be used with it.
4. Without any `access modifier`: The default access modifier is `private` for a Main() method. 

5. **Return Type:** The Main Method can also have integer return type. Returning an integer value from Main() method cause the program to obtain a status information. The value which is returned from Main() method is treated as the exit code for the process. <br>
***
**Important Points:**<br>

* The Main() method is the entry point a C# program from where the execution starts.
* Main() method must be **static** because it is a class level method. To invoked without any instance of the class it must be static. Non-static Main() method will give a compile-time error.
* Main() Method **cannot be overridden** because it is the static method. Also, the static method cannot be virtual or abstract.
* **Overloading of Main() method** is allowed. But in that case, only one Main() method is considered as one entry point to start the execution of the program. 