# C# | Data Types
Data types specify the type of data that a valid C# variable can hold. C# is a strongly typed programming language because in C#, each type of data (such as integer, character, float, and so forth) is predefined as part of the programming language and all constants or variables defined for a given program must be described with one of the data types. 
### Data types in C# is mainly divided into three categories
* Value Data Types
* Reference Data Types
* Pointer Data Type
1. `Value Data Types` : In C#, the Value Data Types will directly `store the variable value in memory` and it will also accept both signed and unsigned literals. The derived class for these data types are `System.ValueType`.
### Following are different Value Data Types in C# programming language 
* Signed & Unsigned Integral Types 
* Floating point types
* Decimal types
* Character types
2. `Reference Data Types` : The Reference Data Types will contain a `memory address of variable value` because the `reference types` won’t store the variable value directly in memory. The built-in reference types are string, object.
* String : It represents a sequence of Unicode characters and its type name is System.String. So, string and String are equivalent.
<blockquote>
    <p>string s1 = "hello"; // creating through string keyword<p>
    <p>String s2 = "welcome"; // creating through String class<p> 
</blockquote>

* `Object` : In C#, all types, `predefined` and `user-defined`, `reference types` and `value types`, inherit directly or indirectly from Object. So basically it is the base class for all the data types in C#. **Before assigning values, it needs type conversion**.<br> When a variable of a value type is converted to object, it’s called `boxing`. When a variable of type object is converted to a value type, it’s called `unboxing`. Its type name is `System.Object`.
3. `Pointer Data Type` : The Pointer Data Types will contain a `memory address` of the `variable value`. 
To get the pointer details we have a two symbols `ampersand (&)` and `asterisk (*)`.<br>
`ampersand (&)`: It is Known as `Address Operator`. It is used to `determine the address of a variable`.
`asterisk (*)`: It also known as `Indirection Operator`. It is used to `access the value of an address`.